---
layout: post
title: Blog 2
date: 2019-03-14
description: Second development blog with Ex Machina post-mortem
category: development
published: false
tags: [dev, blog]
---

# March Update

## Ex Machina


My last Low Level Programming assignment was a 2D Platformer based on the film *Ex Machina*.
It was my first experience of working as lead developer on a project, and I'd say it was successful.


### Key Features
I was very pleased with how the game ran under the hood, however much of this was not obvious to a user.
Some features were:
- A level editor based on an external .txt file 
- Graded highscores based on quality of gameplay. 
- Highscore saving and loading from file
- Basic animation cycles

<!--more-->
The level editor allowed us as a group to design levels very quickly and easily, by simply changing numbers in a text file. 
Where there was a 0, a background tile was rendered and where there was a 1, a platform was added. This was adapted later to add powerups but when it came to testing and level design, this saved a lot of time.
(screenshot soon)

In each level there was a collectible star and the player's time was recorded. Based on the time and whether the star was collected, the player was assigned a score from 'S' to 'F'. This score was saved to an external file and read back in when needed and could be viewed on a leaderboard.
Unfortunately, on demo day, we had to remove this feature as it was unstable and caused crashes. I would like to continue working on it and fix it as our feedback for the game asked for more 'replayability' and I think this would cover that base. 

One feature which I did not work on but really liked in the game was sprite animation. We had a different character sprite for each level to symbolise the AI (the playable character) getting smarter (similar to the film). 
These sprites had a basic running animation which updated about 5 times per second.
As well as this we had a death screen showing Nathan, the evil (or atleast morally questionable) creator of the AI in the film, laughing manically. This created frustration for the player and increased replayability. 
(screenshot soon)

